# This was written in the winter of 2019, saved here for latter linking to the politics section

As I walked to my car after class I could smell the ashes of a cigarette and hear the echos of a train scraping on its tracks. The cool foggy air held still beams of light. It looked like a scene from Blade runner, but I couldn't help but feel like the Android's of it's inspiration, lusting after something to make me feel alive.

The drive home was mentally taxing. The fog so dense that cars ahead seemed to be balls of light floating in the distance and keeping sight of the lines to stay in my lane took a constant effort. After a little over half an hour of focus and 80's synthwave music I pulled into my driveway.

My day had been long, and I hadn't had a hood meal to speak of so I heated up some leftovers and talked with my parents as I ate. My mom was distracted by writing her next book and my dad was lost in a sea of Facebook memes, which he was showing us between intermittent laughter. I wasn't really amused, in fact I was irritated.

I ranted to him about something I know he's heard from me before, the spheel of how Facebook is evil. How computers deprive us of our privacy and we willingly feed a machine that is well documented in its atrocities, and as usual he failed to see the point.

He used the same defense everyone does
"All of my friends are on Facebook"

How many of those 'friends' do you really talk to? How many of them just repost meaningless memes and jokes, while providing no insight, let alone basic updates on their life.

Some of my absolute best friends are people I've met online or only know online, but none of them are people I stay in contact with though Facebook.

This isn't a Facebook rant though, its a personal connection rant. So many of my friends and family consume social media to the point they don't want to admit it but don't even take the time to maintain the relationships they do care about. That stereotype about calling your mother? Yeah, there's a point of reality in it. I dont know what it was like before Facebook, honestly, I really don't. But I think we valued the connections we did have a lot more. Our friends may have been those from high school sure, but I know there used to be more tight night local communities that shared interests, but now the convince of social media has devalued the local meeting of friends. Which is ironic in a way. I've been in communites which would have never stood a chance of existing without social media to bring together the band of misfits but Ive also seen social media start massive amounts of drama that spiral out of control and destroy the local community.

Worst of all though, I've seen social media devalue the importance of what people do. I figure maybe one or two people will read to this point, having lost interest long before now, and the same goes for much of the honestly great long form reporting I find online, or the longer stories people post for free for our entertainment. Creativity is becoming devalued as memes and short < 100 word posts become our new limits. Works of art that take time to digest and see meaning it get overlooked, poetry is dead, and heaven forbid you want to discuss politics in a civil matter. Hell, for many even the idea of playing a videogame or watching a movie is second to the instant gratification of short form content like Youtube, Reddit, or Facebook.

Im not innocent in this, not by a long shot but I have two rules for myself which have helped:

For every two hours consuming content, I should spend at least an hour making something

At least 1/2 of my time consuming should be longer form content: be it full stories, books, movies, etc. Not YouTube, Reddit, Facebook, etc.

But when much of what I make, be it writing, music, or whatever is ignored because it's not a viral meme or it's too long to hold someone's attention it seriously hampers my motvation, and I find it easier and easier to break my two rules. I've been doing a decent job, and as with any addiction it takes time to get out of and falling back is easy, but the reward of creating and consuming more filling content is much like having a nice home cooked meal instead of a super sugary diet.

I just wish more people would appreciate each other's cooking instead of eating candy all day. I want to work with people on these things, but if everyone else just stays addicted it's hard to keep going. We're inevitably social creatures and we do what our friends do, and doing things with friends is always better. Being on Facebook or Reddit, watching YouTube videos- these may trick your brain into thinking you have what you want, but being on the other side I really wish some of you would join me.

I'm always down to hang out, to wonk together on making something cool, or talk about life, you just have to reach out not wait for me to post a funny meme for you to comment on. Lets talk about your hobbies and projects and what you care about and stop posting memes and Tumblr screenshots.

# Written a bit before the above, focused more heavily on facebook


I've posted things like this here before, but I feel like I need to again in light of recent conversations with friends: On Facebook, you are the product and you are you should know what you are funding. I think at this point the Cambridge Analytica scandal[1] is pretty well known, but that is nothing compared to the other things in Facebook's past. At one point Facebook targeted teenagers and filtered their news feed to be mood based which was found to lead to real world mood changes [2]. But even if these things don't bother you, you think Facebook just made a mistake, there's the case of Facebook's content moderation team being paid less than a living wage and being exposed to situations which lead to severe mental illness [3]. Speaking of mental illness, Facebook owned Instagram's recommendation algorithm has been found to recommend pro self-harm content to those most vulnerable, which has actually lead to deaths [4].

Think about who you're giving your data, money, and views to and on what platform you do so. There are alternatives. You don't have to sell all your data to big organizations to stay in touch. I use Mastodon [5] instead of Twitter, Telegram instead of messenger [6] and a combination of Reddit and the things above instead of Facebook. You do have a choice. If nothing else you can use Facebook in a separate browser or in a container [7] so you're at least not funding them in full.

Just like voting and contributing to your community, having digital responsibility is important too.

Thanks for reading this, if you want to talk about digital privacy or security you can shoot me a message here and I'll get back to you next time I log in, or you can message me on Telegram and I'll get back to you right away.

[1] https://www.nytimes.com/…/facebook-cambridge-analytica-expl…

[2] https://www.nytimes.com/…/facebook-tinkers-with-users-emoti…

[3] https://www.theverge.com/…/cognizant-facebook-content-moder…

[4] https://www.wired.com/…/when-algorithms-think-you-want-to-…/

[5] https://joinmastodon.org/

[6] https://telegram.org/

[7] https://addons.mozilla.org/…/fire…/addon/facebook-container/

# Written significantly earlier in the semester:

How to ruin education: for dummies



​	My name is Vega Carlson. As I write this I am a Resident Assistant in Neihardt. A building often seen as exclusive (though not quite as much so as Kauffman) and full of some of UNL's brightest minds. Sadly, I see nothing but squashed potential and the erosion of dreams as days turn to weeks turn to semesters of learning material that is not applicable to, not relevant to, outdated to, or already understood by those that we have deemed the future. Worse yet, when people do decide to break the mold, we punish them for it.

​	Let me start from the beginning though. I'm a third year student at UNL, and if things stay on track, I will be the third in my family to have gone to UNL. My mother graduated in law with which she is now a practicing attorney and partner at her law firm, my brother graduated just last year with a degree in Mechanical Engineering and is already regularly traveling the world meeting new clients and working as one of the lead members on a research and development team. I am pursing both computer and electrical engineering degrees here, as such despite being on my third year I predict I will need at minimum another two. In the past few years I have learned a lot. The problem is, I don't know how much of that has been because of class. I believe the majority of my education has been from my own experiences outside of class and my desire to teach myself. They inspired me to go to college, but both of them gave me the same warning- most of what I learn that is actually useful will not be in class.

​	Of all the classes I have taken, ACES and major related, the only ones for which I can say with confidence that I learned more than I would have if I had not gone to college are the math courses, and that is simply because I personally am not interested in non-applied mathematics. But what of the others? Did I learn nothing in my programming classes? (CSCE155,156,310) In fairness, I did learn a little, and the classes unrelated to my major (with the exception of JGEN 200 which is totally worthless) got me to appreciate new things. However, compared to what I could have learned though individual study in the same amount of time, I don't think this was by any stretch of the imagination an effective use of my time or money. Worse though, is that the busy work from these classes inhibits this free exploration and growth.

​	This problem has been the general trend here at UNL for me as well as many other students. I'm not pretending to able to speak for everyone, but I think for many we learn the theory while we're here only to find that "in the real world" things don't work like that. Just in my personal experiences this includes everything from hand designing every component in a processor instead of using abstractions to simplify out some of the understood and repeated parts to manually analyzing circuits instead of using software that's been around as long as computers have. Or everyone's favorite: math classes where calculators are not allowed.

​	Don't misinterpret this as me whining my classes are hard. I **prefer** my classes be difficult. I'm paying to sit in that seat, and if something is easy that means I'm not learning. The issue is I'm learning how to do things the way they've always been done instead of the way they are done now. Progress and change is exponential, while humans ability to adapt and react is, and always has been, linear. Everyone knows just how crazy it is that we all have a computer that's powerful enough to handle realistic looking 3D graphics in our pockets, yet, for some reason, despite this being at this point a universal tool, we still do math by hand? Does this make sense? All progress though out history has been because people built on top of previous advancements and have abstracted away that problem. When GM builds a car they don't reinvent the wheel, nor do they design and build every robot used for automation in house. Why when I try to solve a complicated system of equations would I not use a program that can do it for me? Sure, make sure I have the knowledge necessary to use those tools proficiently and know when the tool has acted up, but a mechanic doesn't need to know how to make a drill, why should I need to know how to estimate and nth order differential equation when a computer can give me a solution that is much more accurate, avoids any possibility of an algebra or calculus mistake, and can do it comparatively instantly. This is only scratching the surface though. The phones we all carry around also give us immediate access to the worlds largest wealth of information. Why should any one care to memorize what year The Beatles released Abby Road (History of Rock) or what years the parties in this US flipped in opinion (Political Science)? I should know of these things, but I shouldn't need to know the specifics, because after a test, I can assure none but the most die hard of those fields with the most extreme of narrow interests on those topics will remember. But even beyond that, why would I care to know the best algorithm for some weird data structure off the top of my head? If I need to find out I'll Google it, just like a professional at any workplace will do after they've forgotten less than one year after graduation.

​	Right now, my classes are hard. The thing is it's because I have a hard time caring about them. I have a passion for what I do. I love programming and designing circuits, but some how UNL has managed to teach these things in ways that at times make me despise them.

​	College, and education as a whole really, needs to shift. Two decades ago when, when I was born, it may have made sense to teach like this. But for those of us that are actually passionate about what we do, being forced to sit though explanations of concepts that will not be relevant beyond the next homework assignment where, at best, only a hypothetical situation in which this may be a solution may be proposed, or at worst we are forced to do a problem that is nonsense if done in reality for the sake of a grade. That's not education. That's a form of punishment. If the goal of UNL is truly to educate, to show students new view points, and to help these people that are mankind's hope for a better tomorrow, then we need to teach them like it. People taught to solve yesterday's problems will at best solve today's problems. We need more. We deserve more. I, and all of the other students of UNL, deserve an education that prepare's them for tomorrows problems, especially when we're going into debt to get it.

​	I'm not going to propose a single solution, because I'm not qualified to do that. But, then again, that's kind of the point. Specialization is necessary, and while it used to be that even to specialize you needed to have a reasonably deep understanding of many, many things so you could communicate effectively now when you need to double check some fact when talking to someone in an adjacent field it takes 30 seconds to search instead of needing to keep it all stored in your gray matter. Instead of having a Computer engineer take low level chemistry (assuming they are not specializing in post silicon semi conductors) why not provide a nice overview of the topics that would be covered as well as their potential application and common pitfalls.

​	As things are right now I regularly talk to computer science and computer engineering students who don't even have this broad knowledge of their own field yet for some reason they have in depth knowledge of adjacent fields. I don't see any way this can possibly be justified.

​	When I first started this though I said some students are having their dreams eroded while they are here, and despite the drama in that statement, I do believe it to be true. I have seen friends switch majors because of what looked to me to be a distaste in the teaching style and this aforementioned outdated style of education instead of it being because they truly would be happier in the new major. I've talked to countless people who have incredible ideas with no way to pursue them because in order to have 12 credit hours to be a full time student they have to take on so much busy work that these ideas fade into exactly that, ideas to never be realized. And what do they get in return, what is the payoff for this sacrifice? The can now estimate a complicated differential equation by hand with exponential error, which I'm sure to someone, somewhere is useful, but not to them.

​	I mentioned I'm a Neihardt RA, but the observant may question why I said "as I write this". I'm currently being investigated for wrong doing. I have piles of stuff for working with and experimenting with circuits in my room. One of those things is a high voltage boost module, which can take up to ~5V and turn it into 40kV. While my use case for this is complicated, I was working with it to try to get an idea of it's exact characteristics and how it functions. When I did so I powered it using a nearly dead AA battery, meaning the maximum current that could be output by this was nearly 0 despite there being a visible, small arc in the air. Because it's entirely safe (upon touching it it feels at absolute most like getting a light shock like you would brushing against someone), and because I deemed it to be a good learning opportunity I decided to show and allow a few of the residents on my floor to touch it after doing so myself and explaining the physics behind it, and why it was completely safe. Residence Life does not support my decision to do this and as such is considering termination. My decision to show some people, in an educational manner, something that is for engineering majors directly applicable and for others is, at least in my opinion, interesting and allows for them to gain knowledge about a subject they otherwise would not, somehow something bad to do at an educational institution.

​	If this were just my fight I would never write this paper, but it's about more than me. I have a friend here in Neihardt that has a 3D printer he designed and built from the ground up, last year when I was his RA he printed many things for others on the floor including multiple prototypes for a NASA design competition. For me he printed a case to protect my Software Defined Radio (SDR), a tool I used this summer to experiment with wireless communication protocols. UNL Housing doesn't think he should be able to have this in his room because it's not UL approved. (UL is a private safety testing organization that tests many products globally) I get it though, Neihardt in particular is an old building and there's a very real concern about it's safety and flammability, however, at the same time we're talking about something that is made to work with extreme precision, has an automatic shut off for the heating bed, and the heating bed and extruders are both very closely monitored to maintain a target temperature. Compare this to a candle warmer, which is more than likely a short circuit embedded in some ceramic and plugged into a wall. Which sounds safer? The mass produced at as low a cost as possible option or the one that had years of design and careful planning put into it, with only the best possible components hand chosen.

​	This same rule would if actually enforced in full, ban anyone from bringing a computer that they built. However, currently they're choosing to pick and chose this selectively on a case by case basis. Meaning weather or not you can bring something is totally undefined, and odds are because the easiest option is to say 'no' that's exactly what housing will do. Rules here aren't enforced on merit or right and wrong, they're enforced based on how the person in charge feels about things. I have an electric guitar here but I'm not allowed to play it with an amp in the dorms, but I can play my acoustic so long as I'm not bothering anybody. The reason I bring this up? My acoustic guitar can very easily become louder than what I would normally set my electric to if I were to play though the amp. There's already a policy that covers noise, why would it make sense to bar someone from something. I get the idea, I'm sure there were issues in the past and it's to avoid them; however, I can't even bring an amp down to the music room to play, while people can go down there to play a tuba or trombone or cajon all they want, all of which will get significantly louder than any amp I would want to haul up and down those stairs.

​	I understand the apprehension to change, but it's this same apprehension to change that has lead to a rule which says overnight guests are fine if you're gay, but if you're straight that's a no go. Which, since I'm bi, feels like UNL actively encouraging me to have sex with men, something I believe to be far from this rule's intent. In their defense they're looking into changing this rule, but ironically, only after outcry form the LGBTQ community because they felt singled out by it.

​	Moving on though, UNL's  policies only get more exciting. If you're a resident, then I have a question for you: If you bring an XBox, desktop computer, and a Google Home, which one would you like to connect, because you're not allowed to have a network switch in your room, the Google Home won't be able to connect to the wifi, and using the XBox over wireless is a test in patience as I am convinced the frequency at which the wifi drops out is how they send data, not by using the actual signal.

​	But you know what, when it does work it's pretty fast, so I guess I shouldn't complain. Even if I can still see what anybody on the wifi on an insecure webpage is doing. That's no big deal, I'm sure.

But while we're on the subject of IT, what does it look like at UNL right now? I think I'll let [this discussion](https://www.reddit.com/r/UNLincoln/comments/99qxvq/hello_i_work_for_unl_while_also_doing_my_masters/) speak for itself:

> Hello! I work for UNL while also doing my masters part-time. I have been given an opportunity to work on the Nebraska Mobile app to see how we can improve it. If you do use the app, what are the things you want to change or add that might be useful.

> So I'm also a university employee, and I'm honestly not a fan of UNL having app(s) between this, the guidebook, the other guidebooks, the move in one, etc. It's kind of a mess and I worry about permissions I'm granting the app. Moreover it appears everything in the apps could easily be done by just making a truly mobile friendly website so my tuition isn't being spent developing g for both Ios and Android while some of the rooms I have class in are crumbling and -other than caps- more things are requiring more money to participate in or use.
>
> The app looks fine, it just seems like a waste.

> Thank you for your comment. I agree that the current state of mobile apps at UNL is kinda messy. Too many apps with no clear direction. We are working to resolve this issue in the future. Higher Education in the US in general is kinda new to the mobile space and everyone is trying figure out how to utilize the mobile apps for student success. Deciding how to allocate fundings (mobile development vs infrastructure) is way above my paycheck but I will bring your concern to the appropriate personnel. The university doesn't spend a lot of resources on this mobile app if that helps :)

> Since you replied I though I'd elaborate. Normally I'm actually strongly opposed to apps that are just containers for webpages (I'm looking at you UBT) but in this particular case, provided it's actually planned out well and executed properly it could be really nice. Especially if it were concurrently developed with an Electron (ohgod I feel bad recommending that) app so it worked in everything from andoid to IOS to Windows and Linux in a uniform manner. It could also potentially serve to do some setup assistance with the eeuroam network, providing instructions based in platform detection, etc. as well as helping manually install the certificate if necessary. UNL just overall has in information decentralizion problem between afforementioned apps, MyRed, Canvas, each department's IT (CSE in particular) , etc. I think providing a single, easy to navigate (so the opposite of myred) system- even it is just an elegantly tied together front end for the world's most fusterclucked backend- would be great. It could even serve to help unify the logins. Like, why do I have a canvas, myred, UNL.edu email, CSE, Piazza, /whatever we use for job search/... Accounts? There's no reason this can't all be tired together. Dont get me wrong, I know some of the reasons it is the way it is, but UNL ITS, development, resnet, etc. Is so Impressively disorganized and disjointed it makes my head hurt, and I'm a 3rd year CE&EE major that came in with lots of experience- heaven forbid a less fortunate student comes in on a Chromebook and wants things to 'just work'. I'm not unreasonable: I know none of this is in your control and that large scope projects like what I'm suggesting are daunting and require lots if effort on a communication level, and we still have both faculty and staff that are strongly opposed to change, but the IT, wifi, and general user experience here is dreadful as is and needs to change. What I've suggested is my ideal world, and I know just how hard it can be to get the separate departments of UNL to work together is first hand, but I think that unless UNL massively changes course and does this now that the future experience if students in regards to IT at UNL can only decline exponentially

> Also- to round all that off- internal constiency that saves students money, like using Canvas built in / plugged-in ststems for more classes so students can avoid paying \$150+ for online homework access codes on top of their \$250+ books would be great. I'm sure there's some deals with the publishers here at UNL, and you know what? Fuck them. The number of students that are pirating their books is skyrocketing just as the book prices do, and I for one see the piracy as the more ethical alternative at this point- so UNLs usage of things like McGrawHills much distained by Student's "CONNECT" when if the professors would just use some of the $1500 I'm paying per class to write their own questions in the canvas system- actually promotes piracy at UNL and on the UNL network, something thats even more relevant because to some extent UNL is it's own ISP.
>
> I, and I think I can speak for the student body as a whole on this, am sick and tired of paying for access codes to something that prior to internet based grading and polling- would have been free despite the fact that it makes the professors job easier and tuition is ever increasing.
>
> We have canvas- an open source project that can be expended upon with realative ease yet 'we' still insist on using paid services like Iclicker, Top hat, connect, Piazza, etc, when all of that fucntionality is already in Canvas, a product the university is already paying for support for.
>
> Finally, my password on MyRed is still different form my password on Canvas( probably good practice anyways, but ohwell) because the university insists on having all these separate systems to maintain this leaving some behind an vulnerable like MyRed was forcing me to change my password.
>
> UNL ITS, ResNet, etc. Employs some very talented people- people like you OP- so I'd love to see all of you be able to work together on one grand unified, not garage hard to use system.
>
> I know I am far, far out if scope for this thread, but I couldn't help but get all of that off my chest.
>
> TLDR: budget cuts my ass, cost more to develop 10 bad things than one good one.

But how is any of that relevant to students not being able to learn in the most effective way? After all, I'm just complaining about bad policy and poor coordination right? I think these policies and choices restrict people from accessing information, inhibit learning new skills, and just generally make UNL a worse college to go to.

I think we get the picture though. [At least UNL has football right](https://www.omaha.com/news/nebraska/the-price-of-failure-husker-football-s--year-revolving/article_d758c488-9deb-52c7-a8a0-dd3277f5a98b.html)?

# Unknown date, not sure how much is usable

When will we acknowledge?

Technology and science have out paced ethics, the human condition, and our own rational though processes. There are a few absolute truths we must accept:

1. We have caused damage to our environment as a result of our history and our continued technological progress
2. While not all of this damage can be reversed; however, much of it can be and we need to devote a large portion of our now acquired resources into finding a way to reverse our impact and sustain our way of life
3. Our social, economic, and political system have all fallen victim to Zipf's law, corruption, and greed
4. Our current forms of healthcare and our entire health care system is broken. As a result of being split between the two system neither is working and people are dying. We are killing our friends, and paying too much to do it. We are letting children die and suffer from diseases that could be prevented or cured using new technology, epically those resulting from CRISPR, but we as a species are scared of improving the most vital thing to improve: ourselves
5. We are quickly approaching a point where our minds are not able to keep up with the amount of information the world provides us. For many the result is mental health issues. This already has resulted in and will only continue to promote more violence and misery. The most visible outcome is mass shootings.
6. Infrastructure in many countries has not been able to keep up with progressing standards leaving many to be forced further into a class divide. This problem could easily be solved if more infrastructure were implemented in a distributed way and provided via public means instead of private. All evidence from historical data supports this claim.
7. Much of our social, economic, and political divide is a result of the failings of education systems. Anything people learn in a classroom is available online today. The only use of educational facilities should be to allow people to work together and to provide the necessary physical resources to practice and learn a field of study, inform people how best to locate this information and what types of information are available (broading interests) , and to test people on their skill levels for the most necessary life skills, such as cooking, relationships, financial management, and civics.
8. All governments should forfeit their weapons of mass destruction, both physical (nuclear, biological) and not (information, viruses) in order to protect the future existence of mankind
9. All information and research that is funded publically, unless critical to public safety, should be published in a free to access publically funded and maintained library online
10. Privacy is an ever diminishing good with our private information being of increasing value. Those who want privacy should be able to opt-out of collection by any private organization under penalty of law. All information collected should be available to the individual. Governments should be required to inform people of what information they have collected unless it is a matter of nation security as evaluated by a pool of randomly chosen citizens.
11. Individuals should be able to apply for exemptions to some laws prior to doing work that may infringe on them. White hat hacking and the CFAA is a good example.
12. The work of a person should never fall below the value required to sustain a reasonable quality of life

..

1. All currency is digital and all transactions public but anonymous.


2. All Public figures are voted for online using a cryptographically secure system that requires proof of **US citizenship while remaining anonymous

If a person applies online they may become a US citizen while not living in the united states, they do, like everyone else, have to pass an immigration test and they may not vote on matters of war or impeachment or any other matter deemed unsuitable by a 2/3 majority of a preliminary vote (2/3 because vote is not mandatory)

3. All voting should use a ranking system where you order the candidates by preference.
4. Local law for everything that can be dealt with locally. Funding for local systems should not come from the federal Government in order to persuade with money.
5. The Federal Government should have say over Equal rights, Human rights, Inter-state trade, **public education, military, ecological protection, and ALL judicial matters with the Judges being appointed by public polling across the nation; however, if it is a county or state judge they need to uphold the local standards. This allows for interstate checks.

**With clearly defined limits

6. All federal budget changes should be live voted upon by the public.
7. All Copyright and Patents have a strict 15 year or until the authors death limit. Transferring ownership of a patent or copyright is not allowed. A business may own a copyright or patent.
8. All tax-funded education must serve public interest, and as such, can not allow tenure, however, all teachers must be paid at least a predetermined minimum based on an algorithm factoring cost of living among other things determined in the federal budget in accordance with 6) and 5)
9. Matters of War, Impeachment, and Civil Rights will all be voted on nationally, with a petition for change or action able to be started by anyone; However, this may checked by the Executive branch ignoring the action, this would have obvious consequences, but does provide for a balance.
10. All information in government not pertaining to national security or an ongoing investigation that is deemed important enough by the three heads of the executive branch will be published online, publicly. Any information withheld, even that of national security, should have an explanation of why.
11. Any action by a politician who bribes, thieves, or is dishonest in matters of public importance will lose citizenship, but may remain in the country.
12. All people have a right to government provided health care
13. All people have a right to education, if they can not afford education even in a public institution the federal government will provide for them to attend one up to the price of materials needed for course work. A school, public or private, must allow the pupil to attend the class and complete any work of credit (grade) free of charge. If the burden on society as approved in that years budget is not enough the deficit will be carried forward and be delt with in the next years budget. When ever possible the government will host free, online college classes up the point of possibility (General classes, more specific classes higher up in the major will only not be offered by the federal government online)
14. All people have a right to government provided assistance if they can not afford or do not have access to clean water, food, or shelter. This shall not be done in the form of monetary supplements but rather via providing the necessary item or service directly
15. Utilities (Internet, Water, Electricity) as defined by the FCC and Federal government will be provided to all people by the government in a way that best utilizes the infrastructure. The FCC will determine the minimum standard of reliance and speed of all data and power utilities, while water and gas (if applicable) will be handled by a more befitting agency not yet named. A city will be expected to deliver at least 10x the minimum standard to it's residents with the requirement falling linarly down to 1x to the resident who is the furthest from that city while that city is the closest to the resident.
16. All states must achieve 90% clean energy by 2020
17. Extremely basic military training is required of every able body at the age of 18 in a course that shall take no longer than 3 months to complete.
18. Any person not previously convicted of a felony may carry a weapon if they pass an extensive psych screening, which will be done anyway before going into military training as set in 18) if this is failed they will not be given training.
19. All drugs and prostitution are legal at the age of 18. However, trafficking is not, and drugs must be sold by an individual with a licence to deal and said licence may be revoked if the product is sold with a false label or is tainted.
20. A trial, if requested by the defendant, may be given a different judge if the current judge is deemed incompetent on the subject as determined by a jury.

https://vegadeftblr.tumblr.com/page/31